Remarks at a Rally at the Mid-America Center in Council Bluffs, Iowa
Thank you. I always look forward to coming back to Iowa, a state where I have so many friends – including your incredible governor, Terry Branstad.We are doing so well in Iowa, a recent Reuters poll had us up by 10 points.On November 8, we are going to win this state and we are going to win the White House.It's going to be a victory for YOU, the American people.We are going to take on the special interests, the lobbyists, and the corrupt corporate media that have rigged the system against everyday Americans.We are going to create a new government that serves you, your family, and your country.Lower taxes, less regulation, more affordable childcare, fair trade deals, secure borders, thriving family farms, and millions and millions of new jobs.We are going to end the Clinton Corruption and restore dignity and honesty to government service.Hillary Clinton is an insider fighting only for insiders.I am an outsider fighting for you.Everything you need to know about Hillary Clinton can be understood with this simple phrase: Follow The Money.In her campaign for President, Hillary Clinton has received $100 million dollars in contributions from Wall Street and the hedge funds.She received $4.1 million in speaking fees from financial firms.The same groups paying Bill and Hillary for their speeches were lobbying the federal government.Twenty-two groups paying Bill Clinton for speeches lobbied the State Department while Hillary was Secretary of State.And don't forget the Clinton contributors were appointed to advisory boards by Secretary Clinton – or all the favors and access granted to those who wrote checks. She even gave up 20% of American Uranium to Russia.She disgraced the office of Secretary of State by putting it up for sale - and if she ever got the chance, she'd put the Oval Office up for sale too.We can't let that happen. That's why you have to go out and vote on November 8th, and early voting in Iowa starts tomorrow.She deleted and bleached 33,000 emails after a Congressional subpoena. 13 phones missing, several destroyed with a hammer. Her staffers taking the fifth amendment, and her ringleaders getting immunity deals. Foreign enemies with easy access to hack her server. Lies to Congress, under oath, about turning over her work-related emails.The Clintons have perfected the politics of profit.The large corporations who support terrible trade deals that offshore jobs – they are donating to Hillary Clinton.The Wall Street investors who have rigged the regulations against the middle class – they are donating to Hillary Clinton.The wealthy donors who want to shut down American energy – they are donating to Hillary Clinton.The special interests who want open borders are donating to Hillary Clinton. That's why Hillary Clinton is pushing for a 550% increase in Syrian refugees.She and her financial backers will say anything, do anything, lie about anything to keep their grip on power – to keep their control over this country.The American people have had it with corrupt Clinton ways. They are tired of the lies, they are tired of the trivial politics, they are tired of being talked down to, looked down upon, and treated like second class citizens.How many more Clinton scandals can this country take - one after another after another? They are the sordid past. We are the bright future.While our campaign outlines big changes and bold solutions to make your life better, the Clinton campaign focuses only on small and petty distractions.Never in American history have so many serious challenges been met with so unserious a campaign as the campaign of Hillary Clinton.This will be the year the American people say: Enough is enough.It's time for real change – a new foreign policy, a new economic policy, a new immigration policy, a new trade policy.Hillary Clinton has been a disaster for so many communities, but especially for African-American communities. I don't think African-Americans are going to come out and vote for Clinton – they are too smart, and they know they are being used. They also know that she'll do nothing for them once the election is over – she never does, and that will never change. Many of them will never forget her calling young African-American men "super-predators."Same thing goes for Hispanic voters – they are tired of being used by people like Hillary Clinton, that have no intention of doing anything for them once the election is over.Hillary Clinton is a vessel for the special interests trying to strip this country of its wealth, its jobs, and its status as a sovereign nation. She is a globalist who has made a career taking jobs from our country and giving them to other countries.I am not running to be President of the World. I am running to be President of the United States of America.From now on, it's going to be America First.Have you ever wondered why it is that all things that the American people want never seem to happen?Why can't we have the schools we want, and the borders we want, and the security we want? Why can't we have policies that support small business, or family farms, or the miners and the steelworkers?The answer is simple. Because the financial interests who control our politics and our media don't want these changes to happen.These special interests control Hillary Clinton. She is their chosen representative. You can disregard everything she says and just remember this phrase: Follow The Money. She's there for only one reason, to protect her donors.Look at her career. She's been there for 30 years, and has never done anything for you and your family. She's failed at everything. She failed in Iraq, in Libya, in Syria, in Iran, in Egypt. She failed on Russia, on China, on North Korea.She failed upstate New York.She failed the inner cities.She's failed women and children. I've created thousands of jobs for women in this country, of incredible talent. Hillary Clinton has been in Washington for 30 years and now 70 million American women and children are in poverty or on the brink of poverty.And she has been a disaster on our borders.I'd like to invite on up here Michelle Root, the mother of Sarah Root, who was killed by an illegal immigrant released into the country under the Obama catch-and-release policies championed by Hillary Clinton.Hillary Clinton supports Sanctuary Cities. Where was the Sanctuary for Sarah?The only people Hillary Clinton has ever delivered for are her donors. Just Follow The Money.Her single greatest achievement may be getting away with her massive e-mail scandal and criminal cover-up.Our campaign is taking on big business, big media and big donors – we're taking them on for YOU. So you can have the future you want.That includes keeping your family safe.New FBI statistics shows that homicide rose 15% last year in America's large cities, and that it's the largest single-year increase in 45 years.More than 3,000 people have been shot in Chicago since January.60% of murder victims under the age of 22 in this country are African-American.45% of African-American children under the age of 6 are living in poverty.I will never back down from fighting to save American lives.I will never back down from fighting to create safety and wealth for our inner cities.My economic agenda can be summed up in three very beautiful words: jobs, jobs, jobs.We will cut your taxes, reduce regulations – including on our farmers – negotiate great trade deals, unleash American energy and we are going to repeal and replace Obamacare.We are also going to end common core and offer school choice to every disadvantaged child – including every poor Hispanic and African-American child in America.The people getting rich off the rigged system are the people throwing their money at Hillary Clinton. Remember: Follow the Money.Our campaign is about breaking-up the special interest monopoly in Washington, D.C. We're trying to disrupt the collusion between the wealthy donors, the large corporations, and the media executives.They're all part of the same political establishment. They go to the same restaurants, they attend the same conferences, they have the same friends and connections. And they nod along when Hillary Clinton slanders you as deplorable and irredeemable.I call you hardworking American Patriots and together we are going to save this country.Government will start working again. Fixing things is what I do. Just look at my projects in New York, and around the world, where I revitalized neighborhoods and lifted up skylines.An article in the New York Post was published recently called "How Donald Trump helped save New York City."The article said, quote: "Trump waded into a landscape of empty Fifth Avenue storefronts, the dust-bowl mugging ground that was Central Park and a Wall Street area seemingly on its last legs as companies moved out… Trump — almost by force of will — rode to the rescue. Expressing rare faith in the future, he was instrumental in kick-starting the regeneration of neighborhoods and landmarks almost given up for dead."That's what I want to do for our country – I want to go into the neglected neighborhoods, the failing schools, the forgotten stretches of this nation, and unlock their potential for all of our people.Together, we can accomplish anything we want.But that means you need to show up and vote on November 8th – and it means you need to start voting early. Early voting is so important.You have to knock on doors. You have to pick up that phone. You have to campaign on the streets. Spread the love that we have in this room to the people of our country. To beat the system, you have to lift your voice, pound the pavement, and get out the vote. Visit our website to find out how you can help.You have six weeks until the election. You have six weeks to make every dream you ever dreamed for your country come true.You have one magnificent chance to deliver justice for every forgotten man, woman and child in this nation.The arrogance of Washington, D.C. will soon come face to face with the righteous verdict of the American voter.This November 8th, we are going to show the whole world that America is Back – Bigger and Better and Stronger than Ever Before.Here is just some of what will happen starting in January of 2017:I am going to lower your taxes; eliminate every unnecessary regulation; repeal and replace Obamacare; unleash American energy; end illegal immigration; keep Radical Islamic terrorists out of our country; save the 2nd amendment; support the men and women of law enforcement; and appoint Justices to the Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.We will rebuild our roads, bridges, tunnels, highways, airports, schools and hospitals.American cars will travel the roads, American planes will soar in the skies, and American ships will patrol the seas.American steel will send new skyscrapers into the clouds.American hands will rebuild this nation – and American energy, harvested from American sources, will power this nation. American workers will be hired to do the job.We will put new American steel into the spine of this country.I will fight for every neglected part of this nation – and I will fight to bring us all together as Americans.Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as One People, under One God, saluting One American Flag.It is time to break with the bitter failures of the past, and to embrace a new, inclusive and prosperous American future.Once more, we will have a government of, by and for the people.We Will Make America Wealthy Again.We Will Make America Strong Again.We Will Make America Safe Again.And We Will Make America Great Again.Thank you, and God Bless!