Remarks at a Rally at Canton Memorial Civic Center in Canton, Ohio
Thank you, Ohio. It is so great to be in the great city of Canton.We just got new polls from Bloomberg and CNN. We're up five points in Ohio, and the LA Times poll has us up 5 points nationwide.The people of the United States are ready for change. They're ready to discard a failed political establishment that disdains, disrespects and looks down on hardworking people.This election is about a choice between the control of an arrogant ruling class in Washington D.C. versus the hopes and dreams of everyday citizens.For years, our leaders have looked out only for themselves.There is no greater example of this in our country than Flint, Michigan. The city of Flint was once known as Buick City. More than 80,000 workers were employed by GM in 1970 – today, its less than 8,000. Forty percent of the city's residents are living in poverty. Violent crime is among the nation's highest.Today I went to Flint, Michigan to address the water crisis. The water crisis in Flint demonstrates failure at every single level of government.It's tragic and it's heartbreaking, and it should never happen in the United States of America.This is the catastrophe that happens when we build up other countries instead of our own.It used to be cars were made in Flint and you couldn't drink the water in Mexico. Now, the cars are made in Mexico and you can't drink the water in Flint.We are going to turn this around. We are going to bring our jobs back and protect our people.Driving through the city you see the shuttered homes and businesses, the dilapidated infrastructure.This is what our politicians have done to this city, this is what our politicians have done to America.But nowhere has the pain been worse than our inner cities. Democratic politicians have ran our inner cities for 50, 60, 70 years. Their policies have produced massive poverty, joblessness, and failing schools.They've trapped Americans in suffering for years, and I'm running to offer a better future. Lower crime, better schools, more jobs – safety, security, opportunity.Now, I understand there are going to be some people in these communities who aren't planning on voting for me right now. I will campaign hard for their votes – we can't stay the course our country is on. If you keep voting for the same people, you'll keep getting the same results.I am willing to campaign anywhere. I am willing to go anywhere, visit anywhere, even if some voters openly oppose me in a community I will go there and ask them for their support.Hillary Clinton calls people who aren't supporting her deplorable and irredeemable. I call people who aren't supporting me American citizens who are entitled to the same respect as anyone else – and I will not stop campaigning for every last American vote, in every last American community, right up until November 8th.I will take my message to communities that are 99% Democrat, or that have voted Democrat for generations. I am running to be President for all Americans, to represent all Americans, and to liberate our poorest citizens from crime and poverty and violence.The economic policies of Hillary Clinton – on trade, on the economy, on immigration – have devastated the inner cities of America. Her policies are the problem; we are offering the solution.Hillary Clinton believes in globalism – taking jobs from Flint and moving them to other countries. I am not running to be President of the world – I am running to be President of the United States. I am running to bring hope to Flint, to Canton, and to every party of this country.If we don't break free from our partisan boxes, then nothing will ever change – it's time to vote for America and America First.Hillary Clinton's refugee plans will cost $400 billion dollars in the long-term. That's enough money to rebuild the entire water infrastructure of the United States.President Obama just announced a 30% increase to refugee admissions, bringing the total to 110,000 refugees in just one single year.Instead of providing free healthcare and jobs to millions of refugees, we need to rebuild our inner cities and take care of Americans.Our support comes from every part of America, and every walk of life. You are cops and soldiers; mechanics and accountants; young and the old; black, white and Latino. You are moms and dads, children and grandparents, you are from cities small and large and in-between. But above everything else, you are all Americans.Hillary Clinton's attacks on you display the same sense of arrogance and entitlement that led her to violate federal law as Secretary of State, hide and delete her emails, destroy her phones with a hammer, put classified information in the reach of our enemies, lie to Congress, and sell government favors and access through the Clinton Foundation.Now the people who destroyed the emails are all pleading the fifth amendment in front of Congress.There is no greater threat to Democracy than when a public official puts their office up for sale. Look at what she did with Russian Uranium, or with UBS bank, or with the contracts in Haiti.Hillary Clinton's record as Secretary of State is one of historic failure. Just look at what she did to the Middle East – in Iraq, in Syria, in Libya. Not to mention her failures in Russia, China and North Korea.One failure after another – all while raising millions and millions from her friends in Wall Street.The policies of Hillary Clinton have produced only destruction overseas and poverty at home.1 in 5 American households do not have a single member in the labor force. Another 14 million people left the labor force entirely since 2009. And the national debt has doubled.I am running to reverse these policies, and to create a future of prosperity for all Americans.My economic agenda can be summed up in three words: jobs, jobs, jobs.That begins with a new America-First trade policy.Hillary Clinton's bad judgement was seen in her support for Bill Clinton's NAFTA, her support for China's entry into the World Trade Organization, and her support for the TPP – she called it the "Gold Standard."Ohio has lost nearly 1 in 3 manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, and 1 in 4 since China entered the WTO.Our trade deficit in goods with the world is now nearly $800 billion dollars.I will renegotiate NAFTA, I will defend your jobs, and I will bring back vehicle production to the United States of America.America's trade deficit with the proposed TPP member countries cost the state of Ohio more than 100,000 manufacturing jobs last year. Imagine how many more jobs would be lost if TPP was actually approved – which Hillary Clinton 100% would do if she ever got the chance.We won't let that happen. But you have to get out and vote.My first day in office, I am also going to order a review of every single regulation issued over the last eight years. All needless, job-killing regulations will be cancelled. Millions of new jobs will come pouring in.We are going to lift the restrictions on American energy.Also on my first day, I am going to ask Congress to send me a bill to immediately repeal and replace disastrous Obamacare.I will fight for you against the special interests, against the corrupt politicians, and against the powerful insiders. Let me be your champion.In all things, it's time to put Americans first – and start taking care of each other.Yesterday, I rolled out a plan to help our mothers and our families get affordable, quality childcare for their children.On policy after policy, we are going to bring opportunity and prosperity to all Americans.I am going to lower you taxes; I am going to get rid of massive amounts of unnecessary regulations, on business and in your life; I'm going to repeal and replace Obamacare; I'm going to appoint Justices to the Supreme Court who will follow the Constitution; I'm going to rebuild our depleted military and take care of our vets; I'm going to save your 2nd amendment [NRA endorsement]; I'm going to stop illegal immigration and drugs coming into our country, and yes, we will build the wall [Mexico will pay]; and I'm going to, so importantly, renegotiate your horrible trade deals, especially NAFTA – which is the single worst trade deal ever made by any country anywhere in the world and a one-way street for jobs out of the United States – and we will make great trade deals that put the American worker first.And Apple, and our other major companies, will start making their iPhones, computers and other products inside of the United States – not in China, and all over the world.We don't make our products anymore in the United States, but we will again – like never before.We will rebuild our roads, bridges, tunnels, highways, airports, schools and hospitals. We will rebuild our water infrastructure, and our EPA will abandon political agendas and focus on its core mission: clean air and safe water.American cars will travel the roads, American planes will soar in the skies, and American ships will patrol the seas.American steel will send new skyscrapers into the clouds.American hands will rebuild this nation – and American energy, mined from American sources, will power this nation. American workers will be hired to do the job.We will put new American steel into the spine of this country.I will fight for every neglected part of this nation – and I will fight to bring us all together as One American People.Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as One People, under One God, saluting One American Flag.It is time to break with the bitter failures of the past, and to embrace a new, inclusive and prosperous American future.Jobs will return, incomes will rise, and new factories will come rushing back to our shores.Once more, we will have a government of, by and for the people.We Will Make America Wealthy Again.We Will Make America Safe Again.And Will Make America Great Again.Thank you, and God Bless!