Remarks at Prescott Valley Event Center in Prescott Valley, Arizona
Thank you. I am so thrilled to be back in Arizona.In 35 days, we are going to win this state and we are going to win the White House.I am going to make America Rich again.I am going to end illegal immigration, stop the massive inflow of refugees, keep jobs from pouring out of our country, renegotiate our disastrous trade deals, and massively reduce taxes and regulations on our workers and our small businesses.My economic agenda is very simple: jobs, jobs, jobs.I want to send our best wishes to the great governor Mike Pence, as he prepares for his debate tonight. The debate will be a contrast between our campaign of big ideas and bold solutions for tomorrow, versus the small and petty Clinton campaign that is stuck in the past. We are change – she is four more years of Obama.Clinton can't talk about the real problems facing our country because she's the one who helped create all of our problems in the first place. To hide her corruption, she deleted 33,000 emails after a congressional subpoena.Hillary Clinton has been there for 30 years, and hasn't fixed anything. In fact, she's just made things worse – she failed upstate New York, promising to create 200,000 jobs, but manufacturing is down almost 40 percent. She failed overseas, unleashing death and destruction. And she failed Latinos and African-Americans, producing only more poverty in the inner cities.Now, after years of failure, she complains about how I've used the tax laws to my benefit. Then why didn't she ever try to change those laws so I could not have used them the way I did? She could have changed those laws when she was in the Senate. The reason that she did not is that her donors and contributors have used those tax laws the same as I did.I know all their names, and I know who they are, but it's not up to me to make them public figures.Two public Hillary supporters who are known are George Soros, who declared losses of $1.5 billion in just six months, and Warren Buffet who, in 2014, declared losses of $873 million.I know how the tax code works better than anyone, and I am going to fix it so it is fair, and just, and works for you and your family.I've made my money as a highly-successful private businessperson following the law. Hillary Clinton made her money as a corrupt public official violating the law and selling her government office.The problems we face as a country are immense, and it is going to take bold action to turn things around.Right now, we owe $20 trillion in debt. It doubled under President Obama.Our infrastructure is like that of a third-world country.The homicide rate last year experienced its largest single-year increase in 45 years.Our border is wide open, and drugs and criminal cartels our pouring into the country.Thousands of refugees are being admitted, with no way to screen them, and are instantly made eligible for welfare and free healthcare – even as our own Veterans die waiting for the medical care they need.Our annual trade deficit with the world is nearly $800 billion a year.The federal budget is a disaster. Our State Department, mostly under the watch of Hillary Clinton, misplaced or lost $6 billion in taxpayer funds.We have the worst so-called recovery since the Great Depression.We are nation divided, with race riots in the streets.Our college students graduate, loaded with debt, only to discover they can't find jobs – or certainly not the jobs they want.Overseas, our failed leaders have empowered Iran, unleashed ISIS, and turned Iraq, Libya and Syria into absolute chaos.Our allies aren't paying their fair share, foreign countries like Russia and China do not respect us, and our taxpaying citizens send troops and foreign aid all over the world even as their own cities can't provide the most basic services.America needs a turnaround.America needs a comeback.America needs a change.That is why I am running.First, we are going to repeal and replace Obamacare.The architect of Obamacare, Jonathan Gruber, admitted that the whole sales pitch was a lie – he called it the "stupidity of the American voter." But the only stupidity was the stupidity of our leaders who passed this disaster into law over the objections of the American people.Do you remember all the lies? President Obama said if you like your doctor you can keep your doctor.He promised his plan would reduce premiums by $2,500 dollars. Instead, they surged $5,000.Now, of all people, President Bill Clinton has come out and told the truth about Obamacare.He has absolutely trashed President Obama's signature legislation. Remember, Hillary Clinton called Obamacare "one of the greatest accomplishments of President Obama, of the Democratic Party of our country."Bill has a different view. Here is what bill said:He just said it's a "crazy system," where people end up with "premiums doubled and coverage cut in half." He said "it's the craziest thing in the world."Bill Clinton said:"people out there [are] busting it, sometimes 60 hours a week, [and] wind up with their premiums doubled and their coverage cut in half…the people getting killed in this deal are the small business people and the individuals who make just a bit too much money to get any of these subsidies." Clinton added that it "doesn't make any sense," and that "the insurance model doesn't work."I couldn't agree more. Which is why, on my first day in office, I am going to ask a Republican Congress to send me a bill to immediately repeal and replace Obamacare.This is essential for Arizona. Because of Obamacare, most of the state will only have 1 carrier next year, and premiums are expected to go up by 49% next year.There is only 1 way to stop it: to vote for Trump. Early ballots are mailed out on October 12th, and you need to mail them back in as early as you possibly can.Next, we are going to unleash American energyI just met with energy producers in Colorado, and they are pleading with the government to let them create jobs and wealth in the United States.As part our plan to reach 4% growth and create at least 25 million new jobs, we are going to lift the restrictions on shale, oil, natural gas, clean coal, and all forms of job-producing American energy.Fixing our trade deals will be the foundation of our economic revivalChina, Japan, and Europe are printing huge sums of money – the devaluation of currencies is staggering as to what it represents for our country, our businesses, and our citizens.We're not on a level playing field, and our politicians don't understand what is going on.Our jobs are being lost in massive numbers, and we are not making things in America anymore. Too much is being made in other countries.When I am President, we will start making things in America again.Companies like Apple, will start making their computers and iPhones in our country.Our nation has lost one-third of its manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton's NAFTA – a deal supported by Hillary Clinton. Hillary's Korea deal also cost us another 100,000 jobs.Since China entered the World Trade Organization – another Bill and Hillary-backed deal – 70,000 factories have shut down or left the United States.That's 15 factories closing a day, on average.Never in history has a country surrendered so much of its wealth to foreign countries.As the factories leave, our money leaves with them. Stores close, schools suffer, the tax base erodes, wages fall and the quality of life declines.We've rebuilt other countries at the expense of our own.Companies like Carrier, General Electric, Motorola, Mattel, Fiat Chrysler, and so many others are moving their jobs to Mexico, and to other countries.And now, Ford has announced it's moving all of its small car production to Mexico also.We are going to renegotiate NAFTA and if we don't get the deal we want, we will withdraw from NAFTA and start over to get a much better deal for our workers.We are also going to stand up to foreign currency manipulation, and apply tariffs to countries that cheat.Jobs will leave from other countries and come into the United States.Factories will come rushing in, our schools and communities will be revitalized, and our poorest citizens will get new jobs and higher pay –and new hope.But to be a rich nation, we must also be a secure nation.Security begins at the border.A nation that doesn't control is borders is not a nation.A country that doesn't protect its people isn't a country.A government that doesn't put its own citizens first is a government unworthy and unfit to lead.Here are some heartbreaking examples of how our government has failed our citizens.Countless Americans who have died in recent years would be alive today if not for the open border policies of this Administration. This includes incredible Americans like 21-year-old Sarah Root. The man who killed her arrived at the border, entered federal custody, and then was released into a U.S. community under the policies of this White House. He was released again after the crime, and is now at large.Sarah had graduated from college with a 4.0, top of her class, the day before.Also among the victims of the Obama-Clinton open borders policies was Grant Ronnebeck, a 21 year-old convenience store clerk in Mesa, Arizona. He was murdered by an illegal immigrant gang member previously convicted of burglary who had also been released from Federal Custody.Another victim is Kate Steinle, gunned down in the Sanctuary City of San Francisco by an illegal immigrant deported five previous times.Then there is the case of 90 year-old Earl Olander, who was brutally beaten and left to bleed to death in his home. The perpetrators were illegal immigrants with criminal records who did not meet the Obama Administration's priorities for removal.In California, a 64-yeard old Air Force Veteran, Marilyn Pharis, was sexually assaulted and beaten to death with a hammer. Her killer had been arrested on multiple occasions, but was never deported.Also in California, my good friend, Jamiel Shaw, lost his amazing son at the age of 17 – he was viciously shot and killed by an illegal immigrant with three gun charges, as well as battery of a police officer – but despite these previous crimes, he had not been deported.A 2011 report from the Government Accountability Office found that illegal immigrants and other non-citizens in our prisons and jails together had around 25,000 homicide arrests to their names.There are more than 2 million criminal aliens in the county right now – when I am President, we are getting them out, and quickly.On top of that, illegal immigration costs our country more than $113 billion a year. For the money we are going to spend on illegal immigration over the next ten years, we could provide one million at-risk students with a school voucher.At the same time, our country is being infiltrated by terrorists. Just yesterday, an immigrant from Bangladesh was charged in another ISIS plot. Hundreds of immigrants from high-risk regions have been implicated in terrorism inside the United States since 9/11.The terrorists who planted the bombs in New York and Jersey, and who carried out the mall stabbing in Minnesota, were foreign nationals admitted into our country – as was the mall shooter in Washington.Or look at cases like the Boston Bombers, here on asylum, or the San Bernardino Shooter, here on a fiancé visa from Saudi Arabia. Or the Orlando shooter, the son of a Taliban supporter from Afghanistan.I am going to keep the terrorists out of our country.Hillary Clinton wants a 550% increase in Syrian Refugees.Hillary is for open borders.I am not running to be President of the world. I am running to be President of the United States. I am for America First.For the first time in American history, we have the endorsement of our ICE officers and our Border Patrol officers.We also have the endorsement of Sheriff Joe.We are going to build a border wall, enforce our laws, and keep our people safe. The chaos, the violence and the crime will come to an end – beginning in January of 2017.We are going to end the government corruptionHillary Clinton put her emails on an illegal secret server open to foreign hacking. Then she bleached and destroyed 33,000 emails – after a congressional subpoena. She lied to Congress, under oath, and her staffers took the fifth amendment and got immunity deals. It's worse than Watergate.The investigation of Hillary Clinton was rigged, and it's a shame, and it's one of the saddest things that have ever taken place in our nation.We have become a Banana Republic.Yesterday, we learned that the FBI made a side deal with Clinton's top aides to DESTROY their laptops.Hillary Clinton is the ringleader of a criminal enterprise that has corrupted our government at the highest levels, and the American people have one chance to stop it – by sending in your ballots.We are also going to fix our inner cities45% of African-American children under the age of six live in poverty.58% of African-American youth don't have jobs.More than 3,000 have been shot in Chicago since the beginning of the year.Homicides are up nearly 50% in Washington, D.C. and more than 60% in Baltimore.The Democrats, like Hillary Clinton, have run the inner cities for 50 years, six years, seventy years or more. They've produced only more joblessness, failing schools, and rising crime. They've horribly failed and abused our African-American and Latino communities.To those African-Americans and Latinos suffering in our country I say: What do you have to lose? Vote For Donald Trump. I will fix it.To everyone in the country I say: what do you have to lose?We will have safe communities for EVERYONE.School choice for your children.Great trade deals that bring jobs into our country, not out of our country.Everyone will be included in the American Dream.Here are the amazing things we are going to do for our country starting in 2017:We are going to have the biggest job-creating tax cut since Ronald Reagan; eliminate every unnecessary regulation; end common core; repeal and replace job-killing Obamacare; make childcare affordable; save the 2nd amendment; support the men and women of law enforcement; rebuild our depleted military and take care of our vets; and appoint Justices to the Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.We are going to rebuild America.We are going to revitalize America.And we are going to unite America.Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as One People, under One God, saluting One American Flag.You're going to look back at this rally for the rest of your life. You're going to remember this day. We're going to make history. This is a movement like you've never seen before. We're going to make history together.You're going to look back at this event, and you're going to look back at November 8th, or the day you put in your early ballot, and say this is by far the most important vote I've ever cast for anyone at any time.You are going to be proud of your country again, and you are going to be proud of your President again.A vote for me is a vote for change, and a vote for me is really a vote for you. You are voting to believe in yourselves. A vote for commonsense government, solutions to problems. It's a vote for jobs, jobs, jobs.It's a vote for a government of, by and for the people.All together, we are going to –Make America wealthy again.We are going to make America strong again.We are going to make America safe again.And we are going to make America great again.