Remarks at the South Florida Fair Expo Center in West Palm Beach, Florida
Thank you, it is so great to be here in Florida.In 26 days, we are going to win the state, and we are going to win the White House.Our movement is about replacing a failed and corrupt political establishment with a new government controlled by you, the American People.There is nothing the political establishment will not do, and no lie they will not tell, to hold on to their prestige and power at your expense.The Washington establishment, and the financial and media corporations that fund it, exists for only one reason: to protect and enrich itself.The establishment has trillions of dollars at stake in this election. As an example, just one single trade deal they'd like to pass, involves trillions of dollars controlled by many countries, corporations and lobbyists.For those who control the levers of power in Washington, and for the global special interests they partner with, our campaign represents an existential threat.This is not simply another 4-year election. This is a crossroads in the history of our civilization that will determine whether or not We The People reclaim control over our government.The political establishment that is trying everything to stop us, is the same group responsible for our disastrous trade deals, massive illegal immigration, and economic and foreign policies that have bled this country dry. The political establishment has brought about the destruction of our factories and our jobs, as they flee to Mexico, China and other countries throughout the world. Our just-announced jobs numbers are anemic, and our gross domestic product, or GDP, is barely above one percent. Workers in the United States, were making less than they were almost 20 years ago – and yet they are working harder.It's a global power structure that is responsible for the economic decisions that have robbed our working class, stripped our country of its wealth, and put that money into the pockets of a handful of large corporations and political entities.Just look at what this corrupt establishment has done to our cities like Detroit and Flint, Michigan – and rural towns in Pennsylvania, Ohio, North Carolina and across our country. They have stripped these towns bare, and raided the wealth for themselves and taken away their jobs.The Clinton Machine is at the center of this power structure. We've seen this firsthand in the WikiLeaks documents in which Hillary Clinton meets in secret with international banks to plot the destruction of U.S. sovereignty in order to enrich these global financial powers.And, likewise, the emails show that the Clinton Machine is so closely and irrevocably tied to media organizations that she is given the questions and answers in advance of her debates. Clinton is also given approval and veto power over quotes written about her in the New York Times. And the emails show the reporters collaborate and conspire directly with the Clinton Campaign on helping her win the election.With their control over our government at stake, with trillions of dollars on the line, the Clinton Machine is determined to achieve the destruction of our campaign, which has now become a movement the likes of which our country has never seen before – and we won't let them do that.The most powerful weapon deployed by the Clintons is the corporate media. Let's be clear on one thing: the corporate media in our country is no longer involved in journalism. They are a political special interest, no different than any lobbyist or other financial entity with an agenda. And their agenda is to elect the Clintons at any cost, at any price, no matter how many lives they destroy.For them, it is a war – and for them, nothing is out of bounds.This is a struggle for the survival of our nation. This election will determine whether we are a free nation, or whether we have only the illusion of Democracy but are in fact controlled by a small handful of global special interests rigging the system.This is not just conspiracy but reality, and you and I know it.The establishment and their media enablers wield control over this nation through means that are well known. Anyone who challenges their control is deemed a sexist, a racist, a xenophobe and morally deformed. They will attack you, they will slander you, they will seek to destroy your career and reputation. And they will lie, lie and lie even more.The Clintons are criminals. This is well-documented, and the establishment that protects them has engaged in a massive cover-up of widespread criminal activity at the State Department and Clinton Foundation in order to keep the Clintons in power. Never in history have we seen such a cover-up as this, one that includes the destruction of 33,000 emails, 13 phones, laptops, missing boxes of evidence, and on and on.People who are capable of such crimes against our nation are capable of anything.And so now we address the slander and libels that was just last night thrown at me by the Clinton Machine, the New York Times, and other media outlets, as part of a concerted, coordinated and vicious attack.It is not coincidence that these attacks come at the exact same moment, and all together at the same time, as the WikiLeaks documents expose the massive international corruption of the Clinton Machine – including 2,000 more emails this morningThese claims about me of inappropriate conduct with women are totally and absolutely false – and the Clinton Machine knows it is. It's all fabricated. It's pure fiction and outright lies. These events never happened. The claims are preposterous, ludicrous and defy truth, common sense and logic.We already have substantial evidence to dispute these lies, and it will be made public in the appropriate way and at the appropriate time. These lies come from outlets whose past stories, and past claims, have already been discredited. The media outlets did not even attempt to confirm the most basic facts, because even a simple investigation would have shown these are false smears.What's happening to me is no different than what happened to other innocent people, like the story written in Rolling Stone Magazine – and that magazine should be put out of business.Six months ago, the New York Times wrote a massive story attacking me, and the central witness they used said the story was false, that she was quoted inaccurately. She said I was a great guy, and never made those remarks.We demanded a retraction, but they refused to print it – just like they refused to print the comments from another source who praised me in her book, or the words of another wonderful woman who said nice things.That story was a fraud and an embarrassment to the New York Times. It will be part of the lawsuit we are preparing against them. Now today, the same two discredited writers, who should have been fired from the times, tell a totally fabricated and false story that supposedly took place on an airplane more than 30 years ago – another ridiculous tale, no witnesses, no nothing.Also, a writer from people magazine who wrote a story on Melania and myself on our first anniversary. The story was lovely but last night we hear, after 12 years, a new claim that I made inappropriate advances. I ask a very simple question, why wasn't it part of the story that appeared 12 years ago? I was one of the biggest stars on television, and it would have been one of the biggest stories of the year. Take a look at her words. It would have been the headline. No, it only appears 26 days before the election.This invented account has already been debunked by eyewitness testimony – the very witness identified by the author has said the story is entirely false.This weekend, the New York Times published a full-page hit piece with another claim from an individual who has been totally discredited based on the emails and letters she has sent to our office over the years. But the New York Times refused to use the evidence we presented them. Others have likewise were presented with this story, but after seeing the evidence we provided, refused to print it.This is part of a concerted effort, led by the New York Times, which is fighting desperately for its relevance and survival, and which probably won't even be around in a few years based on its financial outlook, has become more and more vicious and vile.I will not allow the Clinton Machine to turn this campaign into a discussion of their slanders and lies, but will remain focused on the issues facing the American people.But let me state this as clearly as I can. These attacks are orchestrated by the Clintons and their media allies. They are false and slanderous in every respect. We are now less than a month from the most important election of our lifetime – indeed one the most important elections in modern history – and the polls show us in a dead heat. And the new Rasmussen poll shows us 2 points ahead.So now, the Clinton Machine, has put forward a small handful of people out of the tens of thousands I have met, worked with and employed – in order to make wild and false allegations that fail to meet even the most basic test of common sense. Again, this is nothing more than an attempt to destroy our movement and for the Clintons to keep their corrupt control over this government.When I declared my candidacy, I knew what bad shape our country was in. I had seen firsthand the corruption and the sickness that has taken over our politics. I knew they would throw every lie they could at me, and my family, and my loved ones.I knew they would stop at nothing to try to stop me.But I take all of these slings and arrows for you. I take them for our movement, so that we can have our country back.Our great civilization, here in America and across the civilized world, has come upon a moment of reckoning.We've seen it in the United Kingdom, where they voted to liberate themselves from global government and global trade deals and global immigration deals that have destroyed their sovereignty.But the central base of world political power is here in America, and it is our corrupt political establishment that is the greatest power behind the efforts at radical globalization and the disenfranchisement of working people.Their financial resources are unlimited. Their political resources are unlimited. Their media resources are unlimited. And, most importantly, the depths of their immorality is unlimited.Our political establishment has no soul.I knew these false attacks would come. I knew this day would arrive. And I knew the American people would rise above it and vote for the future they deserve.The only thing that can stop the Corrupt Clinton Machine is you. The only force strong enough to save this country is you. The only people brave enough to vote out this corrupt establishment is you, the American People.They control the Department of Justice, and they even clandestinely meet with the Attorney General of the United States – in the back of her airplane, while on the runway – for 39 minutes – to most likely discuss her reappointment in a Clinton Administration just prior to the Attorney General making a decision over whether or not to prosecute Hillary Clinton.Likewise, they have corrupted the Director of the FBI to the point at which stories are already saying the great men and women who work for the FBI are embarrassed and ashamed to what he's done to one of our great institutions. Hillary Clinton is guilty of all of the things that Director Comey stated at his press conference and Congressional hearings, and far more – and yet he let her off the hook, while others lives are being destroyed for far less.This is a conspiracy against you, the American people.This is our moment of reckoning as a society and as a civilization.I didn't need to do this. I built a great company, and I had a wonderful life. I could have enjoyed the benefits of years of successful business for myself and my family, instead of going through this absolute horror show of lies, deceptions and malicious attacks. I'm doing it because this country has given me so much, and I feel strongly it was my turn to give back.Some people warned me this campaign would be a journey to hell. But they are wrong, it will be a journey to heaven because we will help so many people.In my former life, I was an insider as much as anybody else – and I know what's like to be an insider. Now I am being punished for leaving their special club and revealing to you their great scam. Because I used to be part of the club, I'm the only one who can fix it. I'm doing this for the people, and this movement is just right – and we will take back this country for you and Make America Great Again.The corrupt establishment knows that we are an existential threat to their criminal enterprise. They know, that if we win, their power is gone and returned to you. The clouds hanging over our government can be lifted, and replaced with a bright future – but it all depends on whether we let the New York Times decide our future, or whether we let the American people decide our future.If this Clinton Campaign of Destruction is allowed to work, then no other highly successful person – which is what our country needs – will ever again run for this office.I will not lie to you. These false attacks hurt. To be lied about, to be slandered, to be smeared so publicly and before your family, is painful.What the Clinton Machine is doing to me, and my family, is egregious beyond words. It is reprehensible beyond description.But I also know, it's not about me – it's about all of you. It's about all of us, together, as a country.It's about the Veterans who need medical care, the mothers who've lost children to terrorism and crime, it's about the inner cities and the border towns who desperately need our help, it's about the millions of jobless Americans. This election is about the people being crushed by Obamacare, and it's about defeating ISIS and appointing Supreme Court Justices who will defend our Constitution.This election is also about the African-American and Hispanic communities whose communities have been plunged into crime, poverty and failing schools by the policies of Hillary Clinton. They've robbed these citizens of their future, and I will give them their hope, jobs and opportunities back. I will deliver.This election is about every man, woman and child in our country who deserves to live in safety, prosperity and peace.We will rise above the lies, the smears, and the ludicrous slanders from ludicrous reporters.We will vote for the country we want.We will vote for the future we want.We will vote for the politics we want.We will vote to put this corrupt government cartel out of business. We will remove from our politics the special interests who have betrayed our workers, our borders, our freedoms, and our sovereign rights as a nation. We will end the politics of profit, we will end the rule of special interests, we will put a stop to the raiding of our country – and the disenfranchisement of our people.Our Independence Day is at hand, and it arrives, finally, on November 8th. Join me in taking back our country, and creating a bright and glorious new dawn for our people.