Remarks at High Point University in High Point, North Carolina
Thank you. It's wonderful to be back in North Carolina.Come November 8, we are going to win this state and we are going to win the White House.We are going to bring back your jobs.We are going to cut your taxes.We are going to renegotiate our disastrous trade deals.And we are going to protect our country from Radical Islamic Terrorism.Over the weekend, there were Islamic terrorist attacks in Minnesota and New York City, and in New Jersey. These attacks were made possible because of our extremely open immigration system, which fails to properly vet and screen the individuals or families coming into our country.Attack after attack – from 9/11 to San Bernardino to Orlando – we have seen how failures to screen who is entering the United States puts all of our citizens in danger.So let me state this very clearly: immigration security is national security.My opponent has the most open borders policy of anyone ever to seek the presidency. As Secretary of State, she allowed thousands of criminal aliens to be released into our communities because their home countries wouldn't take them back.Now Obama wants to bring in an additional 110,000 refugees, and Hillary wants a 550% increase in Syrian refugees. Altogether, Hillary Clinton's plan would bring in 620,000 refugees in her first term – with no effective way to screen or vet them. Her plan would cost $400 billion dollars in terms of lifetime welfare and entitlement costs.This isn't just a matter of terrorism, but also quality of life. We want to make sure we are only admitting people into our country who love our country.My highest duty as President is to protect our citizens and to uphold the Constitution of the United States. I will honor that duty to the fullest extent every single day – and I will never waver in that sacred obligation.It's just a plain fact that our current immigration system makes no real attempt to determine the views of the people entering. Since 9/11, hundreds of immigrants and their children have been implicated in terrorism and terrorist-related activity in the United States.Now we learn that another 858 immigrants from dangerous countries have slipped into our country and been granted citizenship despite pending deportation orders. This is unacceptable.Altogether, there are nearly 1 million individuals in the United States with deportation orders who have not yet been removed.In the 20th Century, the United States defeated Fascism, Nazism, and Communism.Now we must defeat Radical Islamic Terrorism.Yet, my opponent won't even say the words Radical Islamic Terrorism. In fact, Hillary Clinton talks tougher about my supporters than she does about Islamic terrorists. She calls the patriotic Americans who support our campaign – many of them cops and soldiers – deplorable and irredeemable. Has she ever talked that way about Radical Islam, or about those who oppress and murder women and gays overseas? Has Hillary Clinton ever called people who support these practices deplorable and irredeemable? In many countries overseas, non-believers face the death penalty – where is Hillary's condemnation here?Let's ask Hillary Clinton: how many people who subscribe to Radical Islamic views, and support the oppression of non-believers, would you call deplorable or irredeemable – or are those words reserved only for hardworking Americans that truly love their country and that support Donald Trump?America can never elect a President, like Hillary Clinton, who apparently, with her choice of words, thinks decent American citizens are a bigger threat than Radical Islamic Terrorists.Anyone who cannot name our enemy, is not fit to lead this country. Anyone who cannot condemn the hatred, oppression and violence of Radical Islam lacks the moral clarity to serve as our President.The commander-in-chief of this nation must speak with moral clarity and conviction. Our system of government is the best in the world and, as your President, I will defend our values – and speak out against all those who assault our values in any way.It's also time to remember one very important word: accountability. All this disaster with ISIS happened on Hillary Clinton's watch.Her policies in Iraq, Libya and Syria are responsible for the rise of ISIS. Her attacks on me are all meant to deflect from her record of unleashing this monstrous evil upon us.Her timetable withdrawal from Iraq, her push for regime change in Libya and Syria, her open borders policies – these are the actions that unleashed the ISIS disaster.So she will say and do anything to distract from that record of total failure.Her claim that my opposition to Radical Islamic Terrorism is a recruiting tool, demonstrates a level of ignorance about the terror threat that is disqualifying.When she says my opposition to radical Islamic Terror provides "aid and comfort," to the enemy, we know that Hillary Clinton has once again demonstrated that she is dangerously unfit for office. Her comments are not only reckless, but beneath the dignity of the office she seeks.ISIS is torturing, murdering, executing and exterminating people in a campaign of genocide. And what is Hillary Clinton's suggestion? That we should censor our vocabulary so as not to upset these butchers. I have news for Hillary Clinton: refusing to call out Radical Islam will not lessen the danger, it will only increase and embolden the danger – just like we have seen during her disastrous and failed tenure as Secretary of State.The rise of ISIS is Hillary Clinton's foreign policy legacy.Secretary Clinton has helped to topple regimes, displace millions, and then opened the door to ISIS to enter our country. How is this a smart policy?Hillary Clinton's decisions overseas have left us with the threat we face today – and her immigration policies will invite this threat onto our shores.We must stop the massive inflow of refugees – which Hillary Clinton is trying to drastically increase. We should temporarily suspend immigration entirely from regions where safe and adequate screening cannot occur.Pew polling shows that in many of the countries from which we draw large numbers of immigrants, extreme views about religion – such as the death penalty for those who leave the faith– are commonplace.It is the job of a responsible government to admit only those who we expect to succeed and flourish here, and to become part of our incredible home. Hillary Clinton disagrees with this common sense rule, and it's one more reason why she can never be President.It's time to break with the corruption, the bad judgement, and the failures of the past.It is time to have a new American Future.We are going to change our immigration system to reflect American values.We are going to stop the policy of regime change overseas, and instead focus on working with our allies on a military campaign to utterly destroy ISIS and defeat Islamic terrorism. This will not only require military warfare, but also financial warfare, cyber warfare, and ideological warfare.But to win this struggle, we need to be strong at home.We are going to rebuild our country.And at the center of that effort will be the rebuilding of our inner cities.Nearly 4 in 10 African-American children live in poverty, including 45% of African-American children under the age of six. 58% of African-American youth are not working.Violent crime rose in America's fifty largest cities last year. Homicides are up nearly 50% in Washington, D.C. and more than 60% in Baltimore.More than 3,000 people have been shot in Chicago since January of this year.The schools are failing, the jobs are leaving, and millions are trapped in poverty.To the African-American community, I say: vote for Donald J. Trump. I will fix it – I will bring back your jobs, I will fix your schools, and I will fight for you as no one ever has before.It is time for a new civil rights agenda, one that promises safe communities, great education, and good-paying jobs.My whole life has been about creating jobs. Hillary Clinton has spent her career destroying jobs – just look at upstate New York, and her terrible trade deals.Hillary Clinton supported NAFTA, she supported China's entrance into the World Trade Organization, and she supported the job-killing deal with South Korea that she helped to push through.The South Korean deal was supposed to create 70,000 jobs – instead, we lost 100,000 jobs and our trade deficit with South Korea has more than doubled.Next, Hillary Clinton wants the Trans-Pacific Partnership.Your state has lost more than 4 in 10 manufacturing jobs since NAFTA. I am going to renegotiate this disastrous deal – and if we don't get the deal we want, I will walk away.Our trade deficit is now nearly $800 billion a year – this is the economic legacy of Hillary Clinton.But we are going to turn it all around.My economic agenda can be summed up in three very beautiful words: Jobs, Jobs, Jobs.I am going to lower your taxes; I am going to get rid of massive amounts of unnecessary regulations, on business and in your life; I'm going to repeal and replace Obamacare; I'm going to create American energy independence; I'm going to make our government lean, responsible and efficient; I'm going to fix our terrible trade deals and defend American workers; I'm going to rebuild our depleted military and take care of our vets; and I'm going to appoint Justices to the Supreme Court who will follow the Constitution of the United States;We will rebuild our roads, bridges, tunnels, highways, airports, schools and hospitals.American cars will travel the roads, American planes will soar in the skies, and American ships will patrol the seas.American steel will send new skyscrapers into the clouds.American hands will rebuild this nation – and American energy, harvested from American sources, will power this nation. American workers will be hired to do the job.We will put new American steel into the spine of this country.I will fight for every neglected part of this nation – and I will fight to bring us all together as One American People.Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as One People, under One God, saluting One American Flag.It is time to break with the bitter failures of the past, and to embrace a new, inclusive and prosperous American future.Jobs will return, incomes will rise, and new factories will come rushing onto our shores.Once more, we will have a government of, by and for the people.We Will Make America Wealthy Again.We Will Make America Strong Again.We Will Make America Safe Again.And We Will Make America Great Again.Thank you, and God Bless!