Remarks at the Suburban Collection Showplace in Novi, Michigan
I am going to fight so hard for all of you, and I am going to bring back the jobs that have been stripped away from you and your country.In 39 days, we are going to win the state of Michigan and we are going to win the White House.It is going to be a victory for YOU, the American people.We are going to take on the special interests, the lobbyists, and the powerful politicians that have stolen your jobs, your wealth, and your middle class.We are going to take on the arrogant, corrupt corporate media that have enabled the global theft of American prosperity – a theft that has left behind crumbling schools, roads, bridges and a depleted military.It is time to rebuild Detroit. It is time to rebuild Michigan. It is time to rebuild the United States of America.Hillary Clinton has made a living raking in donations from special interests that have ripped the jobs right out of Michigan. These are the people whose policies raided the jobs from Detroit. That's how she gets rich – by taking your jobs and your money away from you.That's why Hillary Clinton, if she ever got the chance, would 100% approve the Trans-Pacific Partnership. The deal she called the "Gold Standard." The TPP will economically devastate Michigan, New Hampshire, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and so many other states across this country.Hillary Clinton's donors want the TPP – and their wish is her command.These special interests pay her for speeches. They pay her Foundation. They pay her husband. In return, they GET YOUR JOBS. Like I've been saying all week, when it comes to Hillary Clinton, all you have to do is remember these words: FOLLOW THE MONEY.Hillary Clinton praised or pushed TPP on 45 separate occasions. Her close associate and confidant, Terry McAuliffe, said she'd pass it. Her husband has talked it up. Everyone knows she's for it, because she doesn't believe in protecting American Sovereignty.Hillary Clinton only believes in protecting one thing: her donors.Of the 262 companies that lobbied for the passage of TPP, 82 or nearly 1 in 3 donated between $21 and $67 million to the Clinton Foundation.9 companies that lobbied for the passage of TPP paid Hillary Clinton $2.7 million for paid speeches.Of the 12 signatory countries that are parties to TPP, 3 gave between $6 and $15 million to the Clinton Foundation.At least 4 lobbyists who are actively lobbying for TPP passage have raised more than $800,000 for her campaign.On November 8th, We are going to end the Clinton Corruption and we are going to do something that has been a long, long time coming: WE ARE GOING TO PUT AMERICA FIRST.Hillary Clinton is an insider fighting only for herself and for her donors.I am an outsider fighting for you.Hillary Clinton is the one who rigged the system.We are the ones who are going to change the system so it's fair and just for every American.We have a movement. The corrupt establishment is panicking because they know how hard it is to stop us. The news anchors and the donors and the lobbyists who are used to getting their way are trying to do everything they can to help Hillary Clinton and to cling to their power and prestige.The arrogant political class doesn't believe in protecting jobs and wages for Americans.They don't believe in secure borders and strong walls.These Washington and Wall Street insiders don't believe in hiring more police, producing more American energy, or giving school choice to poor children trapped in failing schools.For decades, we've talked about the corruption, incompetence, and failures of our leaders. 2016 is our long-awaited chance to fix the problem – and to hold our politicians accountable. If you do this one simple thing, you can deliver justice for every single person who has been wronged by the system: show up and vote.When you cast that ballot, just picture a Wall Street boardroom filled with the special interests who have been bleeding this county dry, and imagine the look on their faces when you tell all of them: you're fired.In their place, will be a new government. We are the Party of Abraham Lincoln, and once again, we will have a government of, by and for the people.We are going to do it together. In 39 days, everything is going to change.Now, the media doesn't want to talk about Hillary Clinton and her corruption. So we are going to spell it out for them today.The large corporations who support terrible trade deals that ship your jobs overseas – they are donating to Hillary Clinton.Follow the money.The Wall Street investors who have rigged the regulations against the middle class – they are donating to Hillary Clinton.Follow the money.The wealthy donors who want to shut down American energy – they are donating to Hillary Clinton.Follow the money.The special interests who want open borders are donating to Hillary Clinton.Follow the money.In her campaign for President, Hillary Clinton has received $100 million dollars in contributions from Wall Street and the hedge funds.She and Bill were paid $150 million for speeches since Bill left the Oval Office.The same groups paying Bill and Hillary for their speeches were lobbying the federal government.Twenty-two groups paying Bill Clinton for speeches lobbied the State Department while Hillary was Secretary of State.Favors and access were granted to those who wrote checks.She put the office of Secretary of State up for sale – and if she ever got the chance, she'd put the Oval Office up for sale too.She deleted and bleached 33,000 emails after a Congressional subpoena. 13 phones missing, several destroyed with a hammer. Her staffers taking the fifth amendment, and her ringleaders getting immunity deals. Foreign enemies with easy access to hack her server. Lies to Congress, under oath, about turning over her work-related emails.We are going to call them the FBI Immunity Five. So here's my question for Hillary Clinton: can you promise that not one of the five people who were granted criminal immunity will ever be allowed to serve in a Clinton Administration?And here is the demand I am making today to President Obama: will you pledge, here and now, not to issue a pardon to Hillary Clinton and her co-conspirators for their many crimes against our country and society itself?No one is above the law. Not even Hillary Clinton.Clinton and her cronies will say anything, do anything, lie about anything to keep their grip on power – to keep their control over this country.Remember the Clinton pardon of fugitive Marc Rich, in exchange for unknown and undisclosed amounts of money?The American people have had it with years, decades, of Clinton Corruption and scandals. They are tired of the lies, they are tired of the trivial politics, they are tired of being talked down to, looked down upon, and treated like second class citizens.This will be the year the American people say: Enough is enough.Hillary Clinton has been a disaster for so many communities, but especially for African-American communities. I don't think African-Americans are going to come out and vote for Clinton – they are too smart, and they know they are being used. They also know that she'll do nothing for them once the election is over – she never does, and that will never change. Many of them will never forget her calling young African-American men "super-predators."To the African-American community, let me ask you this question: are you better off than you were eight years ago? If not, vote for Donald Trump. I will bring jobs, great education, and safe neighborhoods.If you keep voting for the same people, you will keep getting the same results.Look at what the Democrats have done to Detroit. Half of Detroit residents do not work. Nearly 40% of the city lives in poverty. It's the second most dangerous city in America, according to the FBI.This is the legacy of the policies embraced by Hillary Clinton.A Trump Administration will bring prosperity to all of our people.My economic agenda can be summed up with three very beautiful words: jobs, jobs, jobs.We are going to pass the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan.Every wasteful and unnecessary regulation will be eliminated.We will unleash the power of American energy.The catastrophe known as Obamacare will be repealed and replaced.And the disastrous trade deals, like NAFTA, that have caused so much pain in Michigan, will be renegotiated – and we will bring back your auto-manufacturing.Michigan has lost more than 1 in 3 of its manufacturing jobs since the twin disasters of NAFTA and China's entrance into the WTO – both deals pushed by Bill Clinton and supported by Hillary Clinton.Before NAFTA went into effect, there were 280,000 auto workers in Michigan. Today, that number is only 160,000.Ford is moving its small car production to Mexico.It used to be that the cars were made in Flint and you couldn't drink the water in Mexico. Today, the cars are made in Mexico and you can't drink the water in Flint.Hillary Clinton also gave us the job-killing trade deal with South Korea, which has cost this country another 100,000 jobs.Hillary opposed the Korea deal when she was running for President in 2007. She campaigned right here in Michigan and said the Korea deal "will hurt the us auto industry, increase our trade deficit, cost us good middle-class jobs and make America less competitive." She pledged to reject the deal.But she lied to all of you, just like she lied about her emails.Once installed as Secretary of State, she supported it and called it a "cutting-edge deal." She rammed it through to adoption – she always does whatever the donors tell her to do, no matter how it impacts our families, schools and communities.The U.S. trade deficit with Korea in the top ten products that Michigan exports to Korea grew 54 percent as exports fell and imports rose. This is what Hillary Clinton did to your state.According to the Economic Policy Institute, Michigan ranks first for jobs lost as a share of workforce due to the trade deficit with TPP members, and the country lost 740,000 manufacturing jobs as a result of that deficit last year. Just imagine how many more automobile jobs will be lost if the TPP is actually approved, as Hillary Clinton is planning to do.Hillary Clinton is merely a vessel for the special interests trying to strip this country of its wealth, its jobs, and its status as a sovereign nation.She even supports the disastrous surrender of America's control of the internet, which is happening tomorrow. Hillary Clinton's website says she supports the decision to give away the internet to a "global community of stakeholders."Someone needs to inform Hillary Clinton it's not the job of our leaders to represent a "global community." It's the job of our leaders to represent American citizens. Losing control of the internet to other foreign entities is just one more way Obama-Clinton have sold out the citizens of this country.Hillary Clinton is a globalist who will never protect the freedom and jobs of the American people.I am not running to be President of the World. I am running to be President of the United States of America.Have you ever wondered why it is that all the things that the American people want never seem to happen?The reason for this is simple. It's because the financial interests who control our politics and our media don't want these changes to happen.Hillary Clinton has been there for 30 years, and has never done anything for you and your family.Just look at how badly she messed up on the Iran deal. And, just today, we learned that on the same day as the hostages were released, the United States signed an agreement lifting sanctions on two Iranian banks involved in financing Iran's missile programs.Hillary Clinton is there for only one reason, to protect her donors and collect their money.Our campaign is taking on big business, big media and big donors – we're taking them on for YOU. So you can have the future you want.Our campaign is about breaking-up the special interest monopoly in Washington, D.C. We're trying to disrupt the collusion between the wealthy donors, the large corporations, and the media executives.They're all part of the same corrupt political establishment. And they nod along when Hillary Clinton slanders you as deplorable and irredeemable.I call you hardworking American Patriots and together we are going to save this country.Together, we can accomplish anything we want.But that means you need to show up and vote on November 8th.You have 39 days until the election. You have 39 days to make every dream you ever dreamed for your country come true.Do Not Let This Chance Slip Away.You have one magnificent chance to deliver justice for every forgotten man, woman and child in this nation.The arrogance of Washington, D.C. will soon come face to face with the righteous verdict of the American voter.On November 8th, we are going to show the whole world that America is Back – Bigger and Better and Stronger than ever before.Here are just some of the great things that will happen for your country:We are going to lower your taxes; eliminate every unnecessary regulation; repeal and replace job-killing Obamacare; make childcare more affordable; bring our manufacturing jobs back to Michigan; end illegal immigration; keep Radical Islamic terrorists out of our country; save the 2nd amendment; support the men and women of law enforcement; and appoint Justices to the Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.We will rebuild our roads, bridges, tunnels, highways, airports, schools and hospitals.American cars – made in Michigan – will travel the roads, American planes will soar in the skies, and American ships will patrol the seas.American steel will send new skyscrapers into the clouds.American hands will rebuild this nation – and American energy, mined from American sources, will power this nation. American workers will be hired to do the job.We will put new American steel into the spine of this country.I will fight for every neglected part of this nation – and I will fight to bring us all together as Americans.Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as One People, under One God, saluting One American Flag.To the people of Michigan, I promise you this –We will make America wealthy again.We will make America strong again.We will make America safe again.And we will make America great again.Thank you, and God Bless!