Remarks at a Rally at the New Hampshire Sportsplex in Bedford, New Hampshire
Thank you. It is always so great to be back in New Hampshire, the state where we had our first victory in this incredible journey.I've come to know and love the people of New Hampshire. You are strong, independent and you are free.We are all going to work very hard together over the next 40 days, and we are going to win this state, we are going to win the White House.We are going to take on the special interests, the lobbyists, and the corrupt corporate media that have rigged the system against everyday Americans.We are going to create millions of new jobs for our people, trillions in new wealth for our communities, and rising wages for every working American.We are going to create a new government that serves you, your family, and your country.We are going to end the Clinton Corruption and restore dignity and honesty to government service.Hillary Clinton is an insider fighting only for herself and for her donors.I am an outsider fighting for you.Everything you need to know about Hillary Clinton can be understood with this simple but very important phrase: Follow The Money.The large corporations who support terrible trade deals that offshore jobs – they are donating to Hillary Clinton.Follow the money.The Wall Street investors who have rigged the regulations against the middle class – they are donating to Hillary Clinton.Follow the money.The wealthy donors who want to shut down American energy – they are donating to Hillary Clinton.Follow the money.The special interests who want open borders are donating to Hillary Clinton.Again, just follow the money.In her campaign for President, Hillary Clinton has received $100 million dollars in contributions from Wall Street and the hedge funds.She and Bill were paid $150 million for speeches since Bill left the Oval Office.The same groups paying Bill and Hillary for their speeches were lobbying the federal government.Twenty-two groups paying Bill Clinton for speeches lobbied the State Department while Hillary was Secretary of State.Favors and access were granted to those who wrote checks.She put the office of Secretary of State up for sale – and if she ever got the chance, she'd put the Oval Office up for sale too.She deleted and bleached 33,000 emails after a Congressional subpoena. 13 phones missing, several destroyed with a hammer. Her staffers taking the fifth amendment, and her ringleaders getting immunity deals. We're going to call them the FBI Immunity 5. Foreign enemies with easy access to hack her server. Lies to Congress, under oath, about turning over her work-related emails.She and her financial backers will say anything, do anything, lie about anything to keep their grip on power – to keep their control over this country.The American people have had it with years, decades, of Clinton Corruption and scandals. They are tired of the lies, they are tired of the trivial politics, they are tired of being talked down to, looked down upon, and treated like second class citizens.The Clintons are the sordid past.We are the bright future.While our campaign outlines big changes and bold solutions to make your life better, the Clinton campaign focuses only on small and petty distractions.This will be the year the American people say: Enough is enough.Hillary Clinton has been a disaster for so many communities, but especially for African-American communities. I don't think African-Americans are going to come out and vote for Clinton – they are too smart, and they know they are being used. They also know that she'll do nothing for them once the election is over – she never does, and that will never change. Many of them will never forget her calling young African-American men "super-predators."Same thing goes for Hispanic voters – they are tired of being used by people like Hillary Clinton, that have no intention of doing anything for them once the election is over.A Trump Administration will bring prosperity to all of our people.My economic agenda can be summed up with three very beautiful words: jobs, jobs, jobs.We are going to pass the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan, and we are going to lower the business rate from 35% to 15% -- making America into a magnet for new jobs.Every wasteful and unnecessary regulation will be eliminated, along with every illegal executive order.We will unleash the power of American energy – we are sitting on $50 trillion dollars in untapped energy reserves, and we are going to put that wealth into the pockets of the American people.Common core will be ended, and disadvantaged children will be allowed to attend the school of their choice.The catastrophe known as Obamacare will be repealed and replaced.And the disastrous trade deals, like NAFTA, that have caused so much pain in New Hampshire, will be renegotiated.NAFTA was signed by Bill Clinton, and supported by Hillary Clinton – and your state has lost 1 in 3 manufacturing jobs since it was approved. You've lost 1 in 4 since China entered the World Trade Organization – another Bill and Hillary-backed deal.Hillary Clinton has been on the wrong side of every major trade deal in her career and, if she gets the chance, she would approve the Trans-Pacific Partnership – which would destroy manufacturing in this state.Hillary Clinton is merely a vessel for the special interests trying to strip this country of its wealth, its jobs, and its status as a sovereign nation. She is a globalist who has made a career taking jobs from our country and giving them to other countries.I am not running to be President of the World. I am running to be President of the United States of America.From now on, it's going to be America First.Have you ever wondered why it is that all things that the American people want never seem to happen?Think about it. For how many years have the American people asked for our tax code to be fixed? Or for our infrastructure to be repaired? Or for the waste to be removed from the budget? For how many years have voters pleaded for secure borders, fair trade deals, and quality schools that serve parents and students?All the things you've ever wanted for your country have been denied.The reason for this is simple. It's because the financial interests who control our politics and our media don't want these changes to happen.These special interests control Hillary Clinton. She is their chosen representative.She's been there for 30 years, and has never done anything for you and your family.She's there for only one reason, to protect her donors and collect their money.Our campaign is taking on big business, big media and big donors – we're taking them on for YOU. So you can have the future you want.That includes keeping your family safe.New FBI statistics shows that homicide rose 15% last year in America's large cities, and that it's the largest single-year increase in 45 years.More than 3,000 people have been shot in Chicago since January.The failed politicians and the arrogant media don't want me to talk about the crime and the violence that is happening in our country. They just want me to go along with the status quo.Well, I have news for the people trying to silence me, and trying to silence all of us.We will never back down from fighting to save American lives.That also means keeping our nation safe from Radical Islamic Terrorism. Hillary Clinton can't even say the words.We are also going to keep our country safe from drugs. New Hampshire has suffered so greatly from the heroin crisis and the drugs pouring across our border. The rate of heroin overdoses has nearly quadrupled – once again, our politicians have tragically failed this country and its people.I am going to stop the drugs from pouring across our border – that is a promise.The people getting rich off the rigged system are the people throwing their money at Hillary Clinton.Our campaign is about breaking-up the special interest monopoly in Washington, D.C. We're trying to disrupt the collusion between the wealthy donors, the large corporations, and the media executives.They're all part of the same corrupt political establishment. And they nod along when Hillary Clinton slanders you as deplorable and irredeemable.I call you hardworking American Patriots and together we are going to save this country.Together, we can accomplish anything we want.But that means you need to show up and vote on November 8th.You have to knock on doors. You have to pick up that phone. You have to campaign on the streets. Spread the love that we have in this room to the people of our country. To beat the system, you have to lift your voice, pound the pavement, and get out the vote. Visit our website to find out how you can help.You have 40 days until the election. You have 40 days to make every dream you ever dreamed for your country come true.Do Not Let This Chance Slip Away.You have one magnificent chance to deliver justice for every forgotten man, woman and child in this nation.The arrogance of Washington, D.C. will soon come face to face with the righteous verdict of the American voter.On November 8th, we are going to show the whole world that America is Back – Bigger and Better and Stronger than ever before.Here is just some of the great things that will happen for your country:We are going to lower your taxes; eliminate every unnecessary regulation; repeal and replace job-killing Obamacare; make childcare more affordable; bring back our manufacturing jobs; keep Radical Islamic terrorists out of our country; save the 2nd amendment; support the men and women of law enforcement; and appoint Justices to the Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.We will rebuild our roads, bridges, tunnels, highways, airports, schools and hospitals.American cars will travel the roads, American planes will soar in the skies, and American ships will patrol the seas.American steel will send new skyscrapers into the clouds.American hands will rebuild this nation – and American energy, harvested from American sources, will power this nation. American workers will be hired to do the job.We will put new American steel into the spine of this country.I will fight for every neglected part of this nation – and I will fight to bring us all together as Americans.Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as One People, under One God, saluting One American Flag.It is time to break with the bitter failures of the past, and to embrace a new, inclusive and prosperous American future.Once more, we will have a government of, by and for the people.We Will Make America Wealthy Again.We Will Make America Strong Again.We Will Make America Safe Again.And We Will Make America Great Again.Thank you, and God Bless!