Remarks at Henderson Pavilion in Henderson, Nevada
Thank you. It is great to be here in the city of Henderson, in the beautiful state of Nevada – a state where I have so many great friends and employees.In 34 days, we are going to win this state, we are going to win the White House.How many of you watched the Vice Presidential Debate last night?Mike did such an incredible job. I would argue that Mike had the single most decisive victory in the history of Vice Presidential debates.Last night America also got a firsthand look at my judgement and the judgement of my opponent. Our first Presidential decision was the selection of our running mates, and all of America saw that I made the right choice.While Mike laid out big and bold solutions for America, his opponent talked only of small and petty distractions.Hillary Clinton has been there for 30 years, and hasn't fixed anything. In fact, she's just made things worse – she failed upstate New York, promising to create 200,000 jobs, but manufacturing is down almost 40 percent. She failed overseas, producing only death and destruction – she unleashed ISIS, destabilized Iraq, Syria and Libya, and put Iran on the path to nuclear weapons.At home, Hillary Clinton failed Latinos and African-Americans, producing only more poverty in the inner cities.She is merely the vessel for the global special interests bleeding this country dry.I am running to represent Americans – and we are going to make America Rich again.I am going to end illegal immigration, stop the massive inflow of refugees, keep jobs from pouring out of our country, renegotiate our disastrous trade deals, and massively reduce taxes and regulations on our workers and our small businesses.My economic agenda is very simple: jobs, jobs, jobs.The problems we face as a country are immense, and it is going to take bold action to turn things around.Right now, we owe $20 trillion in debt. It doubled under President Obama.Our infrastructure is like that of a third-world country.The homicide rate last year experienced the biggest single-year increase in 45 years.Our police are under-funded, under-staffed, and under-supported – and Hillary Clinton basically accuses our police of all being racist.Our border is wide open, and drugs and criminal cartels are pouring into the country.Thousands of refugees are being admitted, with no way to screen them, and are instantly made eligible for welfare and free healthcare – even as our own Veterans die waiting for the medical care they need.Our annual trade deficit with the world is nearly $800 billion a year.The federal budget is a disaster. Our State Department, mostly under the watch of Hillary Clinton, misplaced or lost $6 billion in taxpayer funds.We have the worst so-called recovery since the Great Depression.We are a nation divided, with race riots in the streets.Our college students graduate, loaded with debt, only to discover they can't find jobs – or certainly not the jobs they want.Our allies aren't paying their fair share, foreign countries like Russia and China do not respect us, and our taxpaying citizens send troops and foreign aid all over the world even as their own cities can't provide the most basic services.America needs a turnaround.America needs a comeback.America needs a change.That is why I am running.On November 8th, we are going to show the whole world that America is back – bigger, and better, and stronger than ever before.First, we are going to repeal and replace Obamacare.President Obama said if you like your doctor you can keep your doctor.That was a lie.He promised his plan would reduce premiums by $2,500 dollars. Instead, they surged $5,000.Another lie.Now, of all people, President Bill Clinton has come out and told the truth about Obamacare.Two days ago, Bill Clinton torched President Obama's signature legislation. Remember, Hillary Clinton called Obamacare "one of the greatest accomplishments of President Obama, of the Democratic Party, and of our country."Bill has a different view. Here is what bill said:He just said it's a "crazy system," and that "it's the craziest thing in the world."Bill said:"people out there [are] busting it, sometimes 60 hours a week, [and] wind up with their premiums doubled and their coverage cut in half…the people getting killed in this deal are the small business people and the individuals who make just a bit too much money to get any of these subsidies." Clinton added that it "doesn't make any sense," and that "the insurance model doesn't work."On my first day in office, I am going to ask a Republican Congress to send me a bill to immediately repeal and replace Obamacare.There is only one way to stop Obamacare: to vote for Trump. The deadline to register to vote by mail is October 8th. The deadline to register to vote online or in-person is October 18th. And early voting begins on the 22nd.Fixing our trade deals will be the foundation of our economic revivalChina, Japan, and Europe are printing huge sums of money – the devaluation of currencies is staggering as to what it represents for our country, our businesses, and our citizens.We're not on a level playing field, and our politicians don't understand what is going on.Our jobs are being lost in massive numbers, and we are not making things in America anymore. Too much is being made in other countries.When I am President, we will start making things in America again.Our nation has lost one-third of its manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton's NAFTA – a deal supported by Hillary Clinton. Hillary's Korea deal also cost us another 100,000 jobs.Since China entered the World Trade Organization – another Bill and Hillary-backed deal – 70,000 factories have shut down or left the United States.That's 15 factories closing a day, on average.We are living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world.As the factories leave, our money leaves with them. Stores close, schools suffer, the tax base erodes, wages fall and the quality of life declines.Real cash wages for many workers today are lower than they were in 1973.We've rebuilt other countries at the expense of our own. Skyscrapers go up in Beijing, while plants and factories crumble in the United States.Companies like Carrier, General Electric, Motorola, Mattel, Fiat Chrysler, and so many others are moving their jobs to Mexico, and to other countries.And now, Ford has announced it's moving all of its small car production to Mexico also.We are going to renegotiate NAFTA and if we don't get the deal we want, we will withdraw from NAFTA and start over to get a much better deal for our workers.We are also going to stand up to foreign currency manipulation, and apply tariffs to countries that cheat.We will also stop the Trans-Pacific Partnership, the deal Hillary called the "Gold Standard." The backers of the deal have donated heavily to Hillary Clinton, and their wish is her command.She is an insider fighting only for herself and for her donors.I am an outsider fighting for YOU.We will stop the foreign cheating, the product dumping, and the one-sided trade deals. We will lower taxes on American business, from 35% to 15%, and many small businesses will file as individuals any pay only 12 percent. On top of that, we will have the largest regulatory reform in American history.Our tax, trade, energy and regulatory reforms will help us reach 4% growth and create at least 25 million new jobs in a decade.America will become the great jobs magnet of the world.Factories will come rushing in, our schools and communities will be revitalized, and our poorest citizens will get new jobs and higher pay –and new hope.But to be a rich nation, we must also be a secure nation.Security begins at the border.Any government that does not protect its own people is a government unworthy and unfit to lead.Countless Americans who have died in recent years would be alive today if not for the open border policies of this President Obama and Hillary Clinton.This includes incredible Americans like 21-year-old Sarah Root. The man who killed her arrived at the border, entered federal custody, and then was released into a U.S. community under the immigration policies of Obama-Clinton. He was released again after the crime, and is now at large.Sarah had graduated from college with a 4.0, top of her class, the day before.Also among the victims of the Obama-Clinton open borders policies was Grant Ronnebeck, a 21 year-old convenience store clerk in Mesa, Arizona. He was murdered by an illegal immigrant gang member previously convicted of burglary who had also been released from Federal Custody.Another victim is Kate Steinle, gunned down in the Sanctuary City of San Francisco by an illegal immigrant deported five previous times.Then there is the case of 90 year-old Earl Olander, who was brutally beaten and left to bleed to death in his home. The perpetrators were illegal immigrants with criminal records who did not meet the Obama Administration's priorities for removal.In California, a 64-years old Air Force Veteran, Marilyn Pharis, was sexually assaulted and beaten to death with a hammer. Her killer had been arrested on multiple occasions, but was never deported.Also in California, my good friend, Jamiel Shaw, lost his amazing son at the age of 17 – he was viciously shot and killed by an illegal immigrant. The killer had 3 gun charges, as well as battery of a police officer, prior to the shooting but he had not been deported from our country.There are more than 2 million criminal aliens with criminal convictions in the country right now, and more who have escaped the law entirely – when I am President, we are getting them out, and we are getting them out quickly.All Americans living lawfully in this country, including millions of patriotic hardworking immigrants, are entitled to have their jobs, their wages, and their security protected. The borders around our nation are for the benefit of all people living here today – and when those borders are erased, it's often the lawful immigrants already here who are the first to suffer lost jobs and decreased security.At the same time, our country is being infiltrated by terrorists. Just two days ago, an immigrant from Bangladesh was charged in another ISIS plot. Hundreds of immigrants from high-risk regions have been implicated in terrorism inside the United States since 9/11.The terrorists who planted the bombs in New York and Jersey, and who carried out the mall stabbing in Minnesota, were foreign nationals admitted into our country – as was the mall shooter in Washington State. Now, the media doesn't want to talk about this – they don't want to ask how our vetting procedures failed, or how immigration from high-risk parts of the world increased the chances of terrorism and violence.The Boston Bombers were here on asylum. The San Bernardino Shooter was here on a fiancé visa from Saudi Arabia. The Orlando shooter was the son of a Taliban supporter from Afghanistan.I am going to keep the terrorists out of our country.Hillary Clinton wants a 550% increase in Syrian Refugees.Hillary is for open borders.I am not running to be President of the world. I am running to be President of the United States. I am for America First.For the first time in American history, we have the endorsement of our ICE officers and our Border Patrol officers.We are going to build a border wall, enforce our laws, and keep our people safe. I have a simple message for the cartels, the gang members, and the drug dealers preying on our citizens – your days are numbered, and your reign of crime will soon come crashing to an end.We are also going to end the government corruptionHillary Clinton put her emails on an illegal secret server open to foreign hacking. Then she bleached and destroyed 33,000 emails – after a congressional subpoena. She lied to Congress, under oath, and her staffers took the Fifth Amendment and got immunity deals.Now we have learned that the FBI made a side deal with Clinton's top aides to DESTROY their laptops.Hillary Clinton is the ringleader of a criminal enterprise and the only way to deliver justice is to mail in your ballots.We are also going to fix our inner cities, and help Latino Americans45% of African-American children under the age of 6 live in poverty.58% of African-American youth don't have jobs.More than 3,000 people have been shot in Chicago since the beginning of the year.Homicides are up nearly 50% in Washington, D.C. and more than 60% in Baltimore.The Democrats, like Hillary Clinton, have run the inner cities for 50 years, sixty years, seventy years or more. They've produced only more joblessness, failing schools, and rising crime.To those African-Americans suffering in our country I say: What do you have to lose? Vote For Donald Trump. I will fix it.I am also going to fight to help millions of Latinos trapped in poverty, and to help their children grow up in safety and peace.Poor communities will see a massive infusion of new small businesses, and new high-paying jobs. I am also going to fight to provide school choice to every low-income African-American and Latino child in this nation.I want to put every American child on the ladder of success: a great education, and a high-paying job.Here are some more amazing things we are going to do for our country starting in 2017:We are going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan; eliminate every unnecessary regulation; end common core; repeal and replace job-killing Obamacare; make childcare affordable; save the 2nd amendment; support the men and women of law enforcement; rebuild our depleted military and take care of our vets; and appoint Justices to the Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.This Election Day, you have one magnificent chance to deliver justice for every forgotten man, woman and child in this country.On November 8th, the arrogance of Washington D.C. will come face to face with the righteous verdict of the American voter.The failed and corrupt political establishment will be replaced with a new government of, by and for the people.I am going to fight for every last citizen in this land, and I am going to fight to bring us all together as Americans.Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as One People, under One God, saluting One American Flag.You're going to look back at this rally for the rest of your life. You're going to remember this day. This is a movement like you've never seen before. We're going to make history together.You're going to look back at this election, and say this is by far the most important vote I've ever cast for anyone at any time.A vote for me is a vote for change, and a vote for me is really a vote for you. You are voting to believe in yourselves. You are voting to believe in your country.All together, we are going to –Make America wealthy again.We are going to make America strong again.We are going to make America safe again.And we are going to make America great again.